README.rst, before:

=================================
 celery - Distributed Task Queue
=================================

.. image:: http://cloud.github.com/downloads/ask/celery/celery_128.png

:Version: 2.5.0
:Web: http://celeryproject.org/
:Download: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery/
:Source: http://github.com/ask/celery/
:Keywords: task queue, job queue, asynchronous, rabbitmq, amqp, redis,
  python, webhooks, queue, distributed

--

.. _celery-synopsis:

Celery is an open source asynchronous task queue/job queue based on
distributed message passing.  It is focused on real-time operation,
but supports scheduling as well.

The execution units, called tasks, are executed concurrently on one or
more worker nodes using multiprocessing, `Eventlet`_ or `gevent`_.  Tasks can
execute asynchronously (in the background) or synchronously
(wait until ready).

Celery is used in production systems to process millions of tasks a day.

Celery is written in Python, but the protocol can be implemented in any
language.  It can also `operate with other languages using webhooks`_.

The recommended message broker is `RabbitMQ`_, but `limited support`_ for
`Redis`_, `Beanstalk`_, `MongoDB`_, `CouchDB`_ and
databases (using `SQLAlchemy`_ or the `Django ORM`_) is also available.


Celery is easy to integrate with `Django`_, `Pylons`_ and `Flask`_, using
the `django-celery`_, `celery-pylons`_ and `Flask-Celery`_ add-on packages.

.. _`RabbitMQ`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/
.. _`Redis`: http://code.google.com/p/redis/
.. _`SQLAlchemy`: http://www.sqlalchemy.org/
.. _`Django`: http://djangoproject.com/
.. _`Django ORM`: http://djangoproject.com/
.. _`Eventlet`: http://eventlet.net/
.. _`gevent`: http://gevent.org/
.. _`Beanstalk`: http://kr.github.com/beanstalkd/
.. _`MongoDB`: http://mongodb.org/
.. _`CouchDB`: http://couchdb.apache.org/
.. _`Pylons`: http://pylonshq.com/
.. _`Flask`: http://flask.pocoo.org/
.. _`django-celery`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-celery
.. _`celery-pylons`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery-pylons
.. _`Flask-Celery`: http://github.com/ask/flask-celery/
.. _`operate with other languages using webhooks`:
    http://ask.github.com/celery/userguide/remote-tasks.html
.. _`limited support`:
    http://kombu.readthedocs.org/en/latest/introduction.html#transport-comparison

.. contents::
    :local:

.. _celery-overview:

Overview
========

This is a high level overview of the architecture.

.. image:: http://cloud.github.com/downloads/ask/celery/Celery-Overview-v4.jpg

The broker delivers tasks to the worker nodes.
A worker node is a networked machine running `celeryd`.  This can be one or
more machines depending on the workload.

The result of the task can be stored for later retrieval (called its
"tombstone").

.. _celery-example:

Example
=======

You probably want to see some code by now, so here's an example task
adding two numbers:
::

    from celery.task import task

    @task
    def add(x, y):
        return x + y

You can execute the task in the background, or wait for it to finish::

    >>> result = add.delay(4, 4)
    >>> result.wait() # wait for and return the result
    8

Simple!

.. _celery-features:

Features
========

    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Messaging       | Supported brokers include `RabbitMQ`_, `Redis`_,   |
    |                 | `Beanstalk`_, `MongoDB`_, `CouchDB`_, and popular  |
    |                 | SQL databases.                                     |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Fault-tolerant  | Excellent configurable error recovery when using   |
    |                 | `RabbitMQ`, ensures your tasks are never lost.     |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Distributed     | Runs on one or more machines. Supports             |
    |                 | broker `clustering`_ and `HA`_ when used in        |
    |                 | combination with `RabbitMQ`_.  You can set up new  |
    |                 | workers without central configuration (e.g. use    |
    |                 | your grandma's laptop to help if the queue is      |
    |                 | temporarily congested).                            |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Concurrency     | Concurrency is achieved by using multiprocessing,  |
    |                 | `Eventlet`_, `gevent` or a mix of these.           |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Scheduling      | Supports recurring tasks like cron, or specifying  |
    |                 | an exact date or countdown for when after the task |
    |                 | should be executed.                                |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Latency         | Low latency means you are able to execute tasks    |
    |                 | *while the user is waiting*.                       |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Return Values   | Task return values can be saved to the selected    |
    |                 | result store backend. You can wait for the result, |
    |                 | retrieve it later, or ignore it.                   |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Result Stores   | Database, `MongoDB`_, `Redis`_, `Tokyo Tyrant`,    |
    |                 | `Cassandra`, or `AMQP`_ (message notification).    |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Webhooks        | Your tasks can also be HTTP callbacks, enabling    |
    |                 | cross-language communication.                      |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Rate limiting   | Supports rate limiting by using the token bucket   |
    |                 | algorithm, which accounts for bursts of traffic.   |
    |                 | Rate limits can be set for each task type, or      |
    |                 | globally for all.                                  |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Routing         | Using AMQP's flexible routing model you can route  |
    |                 | tasks to different workers, or select different    |
    |                 | message topologies, by configuration or even at    |
    |                 | runtime.                                           |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Remote-control  | Worker nodes can be controlled from remote by      |
    |                 | using broadcast messaging.  A range of built-in    |
    |                 | commands exist in addition to the ability to       |
    |                 | easily define your own. (AMQP/Redis only)          |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Monitoring      | You can capture everything happening with the      |
    |                 | workers in real-time by subscribing to events.     |
    |                 | A real-time web monitor is in development.         |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Serialization   | Supports Pickle, JSON, YAML, or easily defined     |
    |                 | custom schemes. One task invocation can have a     |
    |                 | different scheme than another.                     |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Tracebacks      | Errors and tracebacks are stored and can be        |
    |                 | investigated after the fact.                       |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | UUID            | Every task has an UUID (Universally Unique         |
    |                 | Identifier), which is the task id used to query    |
    |                 | task status and return value.                      |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Retries         | Tasks can be retried if they fail, with            |
    |                 | configurable maximum number of retries, and delays |
    |                 | between each retry.                                |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Task Sets       | A Task set is a task consisting of several         |
    |                 | sub-tasks. You can find out how many, or if all    |
    |                 | of the sub-tasks has been executed, and even       |
    |                 | retrieve the results in order. Progress bars,      |
    |                 | anyone?                                            |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Made for Web    | You can query status and results via URLs,         |
    |                 | enabling the ability to poll task status using     |
    |                 | Ajax.                                              |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Error Emails    | Can be configured to send emails to the            |
    |                 | administrators when tasks fails.                   |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+


.. _`clustering`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html
.. _`HA`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/pacemaker.html
.. _`AMQP`: http://www.amqp.org/
.. _`Stomp`: http://stomp.codehaus.org/
.. _`Tokyo Tyrant`: http://tokyocabinet.sourceforge.net/

.. _celery-documentation:

Documentation
=============

The `latest documentation`_ with user guides, tutorials and API reference
is hosted at Github.

.. _`latest documentation`: http://ask.github.com/celery/

.. _celery-installation:

Installation
============

You can install Celery either via the Python Package Index (PyPI)
or from source.

To install using `pip`,::

    $ pip install -U Celery

To install using `easy_install`,::

    $ easy_install -U Celery

Bundles
-------

Celery also defines a group of bundles that can be used
to install Celery and the dependencies for a given feature.

The following bundles are available:

:`celery-with-redis`_:
    for using Redis as a broker.

:`celery-with-mongodb`_:
    for using MongoDB as a broker.

:`django-celery-with-redis`_:
    for Django, and using Redis as a broker.

:`django-celery-with-mongodb`_:
    for Django, and using MongoDB as a broker.

:`bundle-celery`_:
    convenience bundle installing *Celery* and related packages.

.. _`celery-with-redis`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery-with-redis/
.. _`celery-with-mongodb`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery-with-mongdb/
.. _`django-celery-with-redis`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-celery-with-redis/
.. _`django-celery-with-mongodb`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-celery-with-mongdb/
.. _`bundle-celery`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/bundle-celery/

.. _celery-installing-from-source:

Downloading and installing from source
--------------------------------------

Download the latest version of Celery from
http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery/

You can install it by doing the following,::

    $ tar xvfz celery-0.0.0.tar.gz
    $ cd celery-0.0.0
    $ python setup.py build
    # python setup.py install # as root

.. _celery-installing-from-git:

Using the development version
-----------------------------

You can clone the repository by doing the following::

    $ git clone git://github.com/ask/celery.git

.. _getting-help:

Getting Help
============

.. _mailing-list:

Mailing list
------------

For discussions about the usage, development, and future of celery,
please join the `celery-users`_ mailing list.

.. _`celery-users`: http://groups.google.com/group/celery-users/

.. _irc-channel:

IRC
---

Come chat with us on IRC. The `#celery`_ channel is located at the `Freenode`_
network.

.. _`#celery`: irc://irc.freenode.net/celery
.. _`Freenode`: http://freenode.net

.. _bug-tracker:

Bug tracker
===========

If you have any suggestions, bug reports or annoyances please report them
to our issue tracker at http://github.com/ask/celery/issues/

.. _wiki:

Wiki
====

http://wiki.github.com/ask/celery/

.. _contributing-short:

Contributing
============

Development of `celery` happens at Github: http://github.com/ask/celery

You are highly encouraged to participate in the development
of `celery`. If you don't like Github (for some reason) you're welcome
to send regular patches.

Be sure to also read the `Contributing to Celery`_ section in the
documentation.

.. _`Contributing to Celery`: http://ask.github.com/celery/contributing.html

.. _license:

License
=======

This software is licensed under the `New BSD License`. See the ``LICENSE``
file in the top distribution directory for the full license text.

.. # vim: syntax=rst expandtab tabstop=4 shiftwidth=4 shiftround

Commit message:

Mention ruby celery, php-celery, web2py and pyramid in the readme

README.rst, after:

=================================
 celery - Distributed Task Queue
=================================

.. image:: http://cloud.github.com/downloads/ask/celery/celery_128.png

:Version: 2.5.0
:Web: http://celeryproject.org/
:Download: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery/
:Source: http://github.com/ask/celery/
:Keywords: task queue, job queue, asynchronous, rabbitmq, amqp, redis,
  python, webhooks, queue, distributed

--

.. _celery-synopsis:

Celery is an open source asynchronous task queue/job queue based on
distributed message passing.  It is focused on real-time operation,
but supports scheduling as well.

The execution units, called tasks, are executed concurrently on one or
more worker nodes using multiprocessing, `Eventlet`_ or `gevent`_.  Tasks can
execute asynchronously (in the background) or synchronously
(wait until ready).

Celery is used in production systems to process millions of tasks a day.

Celery is written in Python, but the protocol can be implemented in any
language.  It can also `operate with other languages using webhooks`_.
There's also `RCelery` for the Ruby programming language, and a `PHP client`.

The recommended message broker is `RabbitMQ`_, but support for
`Redis`_, `MongoDB`_, Beanstalk`_, `Amazon SQS`_, `CouchDB`_ and
databases (using `SQLAlchemy`_ or the `Django ORM`_) is also available.


Celery is easy to integrate with `Django`_, `Pylons`_ `Flask`_, and `web2py`_, using
the `django-celery`_, `celery-pylons`_ and `Flask-Celery`_ add-on packages.
But Celery is only Python, and the integration packages is used mostly for
convenience, Celery has also been successfully used with other frameworks and
libraries, like `Pyramid`_ and `Bottle`_.

.. _`RCelery`: http://leapfrogdevelopment.github.com/rcelery/
.. _`PHP client`: https://github.com/gjedeer/celery-php
.. _`RabbitMQ`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/
.. _`Redis`: http://code.google.com/p/redis/
.. _`SQLAlchemy`: http://www.sqlalchemy.org/
.. _`Django`: http://djangoproject.com/
.. _`Django ORM`: http://djangoproject.com/
.. _`Eventlet`: http://eventlet.net/
.. _`gevent`: http://gevent.org/
.. _`Beanstalk`: http://kr.github.com/beanstalkd/
.. _`MongoDB`: http://mongodb.org/
.. _`CouchDB`: http://couchdb.apache.org/
.. _`Amazon SQS`: http://aws.amazon.com/sqs/
.. _`Pylons`: http://pylonshq.com/
.. _`Flask`: http://flask.pocoo.org/
.. _`web2py`: http://web2py.com/
.. _`Bottle`: http://bottlepy.org/
.. _`Pyramid`: http://docs.pylonsproject.org/en/latest/docs/pyramid.html
.. _`django-celery`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-celery
.. _`celery-pylons`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery-pylons
.. _`Flask-Celery`: http://github.com/ask/flask-celery/
.. _`web2py-celery`: http://code.google.com/p/web2py-celery/
.. _`operate with other languages using webhooks`:
    http://ask.github.com/celery/userguide/remote-tasks.html
.. _`limited support`:
    http://kombu.readthedocs.org/en/latest/introduction.html#transport-comparison

.. contents::
    :local:

.. _celery-overview:

Overview
========

This is a high level overview of the architecture.

.. image:: http://cloud.github.com/downloads/ask/celery/Celery-Overview-v4.jpg

The broker delivers tasks to the worker nodes.
A worker node is a networked machine running `celeryd`.  This can be one or
more machines depending on the workload.

The result of the task can be stored for later retrieval (called its
"tombstone").

.. _celery-example:

Example
=======

You probably want to see some code by now, so here's an example task
adding two numbers:
::

    from celery.task import task

    @task
    def add(x, y):
        return x + y

You can execute the task in the background, or wait for it to finish::

    >>> result = add.delay(4, 4)
    >>> result.wait() # wait for and return the result
    8

Simple!

.. _celery-features:

Features
========

    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Messaging       | Supported brokers include `RabbitMQ`_, `Redis`_,   |
    |                 | `Beanstalk`_, `MongoDB`_, `CouchDB`_, and popular  |
    |                 | SQL databases.                                     |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Fault-tolerant  | Excellent configurable error recovery when using   |
    |                 | `RabbitMQ`, ensures your tasks are never lost.     |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Distributed     | Runs on one or more machines. Supports             |
    |                 | broker `clustering`_ and `HA`_ when used in        |
    |                 | combination with `RabbitMQ`_.  You can set up new  |
    |                 | workers without central configuration (e.g. use    |
    |                 | your grandma's laptop to help if the queue is      |
    |                 | temporarily congested).                            |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Concurrency     | Concurrency is achieved by using multiprocessing,  |
    |                 | `Eventlet`_, `gevent` or a mix of these.           |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Scheduling      | Supports recurring tasks like cron, or specifying  |
    |                 | an exact date or countdown for when after the task |
    |                 | should be executed.                                |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Latency         | Low latency means you are able to execute tasks    |
    |                 | *while the user is waiting*.                       |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Return Values   | Task return values can be saved to the selected    |
    |                 | result store backend. You can wait for the result, |
    |                 | retrieve it later, or ignore it.                   |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Result Stores   | Database, `MongoDB`_, `Redis`_, `Tokyo Tyrant`,    |
    |                 | `Cassandra`, or `AMQP`_ (message notification).    |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Webhooks        | Your tasks can also be HTTP callbacks, enabling    |
    |                 | cross-language communication.                      |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Rate limiting   | Supports rate limiting by using the token bucket   |
    |                 | algorithm, which accounts for bursts of traffic.   |
    |                 | Rate limits can be set for each task type, or      |
    |                 | globally for all.                                  |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Routing         | Using AMQP's flexible routing model you can route  |
    |                 | tasks to different workers, or select different    |
    |                 | message topologies, by configuration or even at    |
    |                 | runtime.                                           |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Remote-control  | Worker nodes can be controlled from remote by      |
    |                 | using broadcast messaging.  A range of built-in    |
    |                 | commands exist in addition to the ability to       |
    |                 | easily define your own. (AMQP/Redis only)          |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Monitoring      | You can capture everything happening with the      |
    |                 | workers in real-time by subscribing to events.     |
    |                 | A real-time web monitor is in development.         |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Serialization   | Supports Pickle, JSON, YAML, or easily defined     |
    |                 | custom schemes. One task invocation can have a     |
    |                 | different scheme than another.                     |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Tracebacks      | Errors and tracebacks are stored and can be        |
    |                 | investigated after the fact.                       |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | UUID            | Every task has an UUID (Universally Unique         |
    |                 | Identifier), which is the task id used to query    |
    |                 | task status and return value.                      |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Retries         | Tasks can be retried if they fail, with            |
    |                 | configurable maximum number of retries, and delays |
    |                 | between each retry.                                |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Task Sets       | A Task set is a task consisting of several         |
    |                 | sub-tasks. You can find out how many, or if all    |
    |                 | of the sub-tasks has been executed, and even       |
    |                 | retrieve the results in order. Progress bars,      |
    |                 | anyone?                                            |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Made for Web    | You can query status and results via URLs,         |
    |                 | enabling the ability to poll task status using     |
    |                 | Ajax.                                              |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    | Error Emails    | Can be configured to send emails to the            |
    |                 | administrators when tasks fails.                   |
    +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+


.. _`clustering`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html
.. _`HA`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/pacemaker.html
.. _`AMQP`: http://www.amqp.org/
.. _`Stomp`: http://stomp.codehaus.org/
.. _`Tokyo Tyrant`: http://tokyocabinet.sourceforge.net/

.. _celery-documentation:

Documentation
=============

The `latest documentation`_ with user guides, tutorials and API reference
is hosted at Github.

.. _`latest documentation`: http://ask.github.com/celery/

.. _celery-installation:

Installation
============

You can install Celery either via the Python Package Index (PyPI)
or from source.

To install using `pip`,::

    $ pip install -U Celery

To install using `easy_install`,::

    $ easy_install -U Celery

Bundles
-------

Celery also defines a group of bundles that can be used
to install Celery and the dependencies for a given feature.

The following bundles are available:

:`celery-with-redis`_:
    for using Redis as a broker.

:`celery-with-mongodb`_:
    for using MongoDB as a broker.

:`django-celery-with-redis`_:
    for Django, and using Redis as a broker.

:`django-celery-with-mongodb`_:
    for Django, and using MongoDB as a broker.

:`bundle-celery`_:
    convenience bundle installing *Celery* and related packages.

.. _`celery-with-redis`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery-with-redis/
.. _`celery-with-mongodb`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery-with-mongdb/
.. _`django-celery-with-redis`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-celery-with-redis/
.. _`django-celery-with-mongodb`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-celery-with-mongdb/
.. _`bundle-celery`:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/bundle-celery/

.. _celery-installing-from-source:

Downloading and installing from source
--------------------------------------

Download the latest version of Celery from
http://pypi.python.org/pypi/celery/

You can install it by doing the following,::

    $ tar xvfz celery-0.0.0.tar.gz
    $ cd celery-0.0.0
    $ python setup.py build
    # python setup.py install # as root

.. _celery-installing-from-git:

Using the development version
-----------------------------

You can clone the repository by doing the following::

    $ git clone git://github.com/ask/celery.git

.. _getting-help:

Getting Help
============

.. _mailing-list:

Mailing list
------------

For discussions about the usage, development, and future of celery,
please join the `celery-users`_ mailing list.

.. _`celery-users`: http://groups.google.com/group/celery-users/

.. _irc-channel:

IRC
---

Come chat with us on IRC. The `#celery`_ channel is located at the `Freenode`_
network.

.. _`#celery`: irc://irc.freenode.net/celery
.. _`Freenode`: http://freenode.net

.. _bug-tracker:

Bug tracker
===========

If you have any suggestions, bug reports or annoyances please report them
to our issue tracker at http://github.com/ask/celery/issues/

.. _wiki:

Wiki
====

http://wiki.github.com/ask/celery/

.. _contributing-short:

Contributing
============

Development of `celery` happens at Github: http://github.com/ask/celery

You are highly encouraged to participate in the development
of `celery`. If you don't like Github (for some reason) you're welcome
to send regular patches.

Be sure to also read the `Contributing to Celery`_ section in the
documentation.

.. _`Contributing to Celery`: http://ask.github.com/celery/contributing.html

.. _license:

License
=======

This software is licensed under the `New BSD License`. See the ``LICENSE``
file in the top distribution directory for the full license text.

.. # vim: syntax=rst expandtab tabstop=4 shiftwidth=4 shiftround
