docs/tutorials/external.rst, before:

==================================
 External tutorials and resources
==================================

Introduction to Celery
----------------------

Awesome slides from when `Idan Gazit`_ had a talk about Celery at `PyWeb-IL`_:
http://www.slideshare.net/idangazit/an-introduction-to-celery

.. _`Idan Gazit`: http://twitter.com/IdanGazit
.. _`PyWeb-IL`: http://groups.google.com/group/pyweb-il

.. raw:: html

    <div style="width:425px;text-align:left" id="__ss_2089054">
    <a style="font:14px Helvetica,Arial,Sans-serif;display:block;
    margin:12px 0 3px 0;text-decoration:underline;" 
    href="http://www.slideshare.net/idangazit/an-introduction-to-celery"
    title="An Introduction to Celery">An Introduction to Celery</a>
    <object style="margin:0px" width="425" height="355"> <param name="movie"
    value="http://static.slidesharecdn.com/swf/ssplayer2.swf?doc=pyweb-celery-090929081406-phpapp01&stripped_title=an-introduction-to-celery" />
    <param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"/><param name="allowScriptAccess"
    value="always"/><embed src="http://static.slidesharecdn.com/swf/ssplayer2.swf?doc=pyweb-celery-090929081406-phpapp01&stripped_title=an-introduction-to-celery" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="425" height="355">
    </embed></object><div style="font-size:11px;font-family:tahoma,arial;height:26px;padding-top:2px;">View more
    <a style="text-decoration:underline;"
    href="http://www.slideshare.net/">documents</a>
    from <a style="text-decoration:underline;"
    href="http://www.slideshare.net/idangazit">Idan Gazit</a>.</div></div>


RabbitMQ, Celery and Django
===========================

Great Celery tutorial by `Robert Pogorzelski`_ at his blog "Happy Stream of
Thoughts":
http://robertpogorzelski.com/blog/2009/09/10/rabbitmq-celery-and-django/

.. _`Robert Pogorzelski`: http://robertpogorzelski.com/

Message Queues, Django and Celery Quick Start
=============================================

Celery tutorial by `Rich Leland`_, the installation section is Mac OS X specific:
http://mathematism.com/2010/feb/16/message-queues-django-and-celery-quick-start/

.. _`Rich Leland`: http://twitter.com/richleland


Background task processing and deferred execution in Django
===========================================================

`Alon Swartz`_ writes about celery and RabbitMQ on his blog:
    http://www.turnkeylinux.org/blog/django-celery-rabbitmq

.. _`Alon Swartz`: http://twitter.com/alonswartz

How to get celeryd to work on FreeBSD
=====================================

Installing multiprocessing on FreeBSD isn't that easy, but thanks to `Viktor Petersson`_
we now have a step-to-step guide:
http://www.playingwithwire.com/2009/10/how-to-get-celeryd-to-work-on-freebsd/

.. _`Viktor Petersson`: http://twitter.com/vpetersson

Web-based 3D animation software
===============================

Indy Chang Liu at `ThinkingCactus`_ uses Celery to render animations
asynchronously (PDF):
http://ojs.pythonpapers.org/index.php/tppm/article/viewFile/105/122

.. _`ThinkingCactus`: http://thinkingcactus.com/


RabbitMQ with Python and Ruby
=============================

http://www.slideshare.net/hungryblank/rabbitmq-with-python-and-ruby-rupy-2009

Commit message:

External tutorials: Added Tim Bull's Build a processing queue [...] in less than a day using RabbitMQ and Celery

docs/tutorials/external.rst, after:

==================================
 External tutorials and resources
==================================

Introduction to Celery
----------------------

Awesome slides from when `Idan Gazit`_ had a talk about Celery at `PyWeb-IL`_:
http://www.slideshare.net/idangazit/an-introduction-to-celery

.. _`Idan Gazit`: http://twitter.com/IdanGazit
.. _`PyWeb-IL`: http://groups.google.com/group/pyweb-il

.. raw:: html

    <div style="width:425px;text-align:left" id="__ss_2089054">
    <a style="font:14px Helvetica,Arial,Sans-serif;display:block;
    margin:12px 0 3px 0;text-decoration:underline;" 
    href="http://www.slideshare.net/idangazit/an-introduction-to-celery"
    title="An Introduction to Celery">An Introduction to Celery</a>
    <object style="margin:0px" width="425" height="355"> <param name="movie"
    value="http://static.slidesharecdn.com/swf/ssplayer2.swf?doc=pyweb-celery-090929081406-phpapp01&stripped_title=an-introduction-to-celery" />
    <param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"/><param name="allowScriptAccess"
    value="always"/><embed src="http://static.slidesharecdn.com/swf/ssplayer2.swf?doc=pyweb-celery-090929081406-phpapp01&stripped_title=an-introduction-to-celery" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="425" height="355">
    </embed></object><div style="font-size:11px;font-family:tahoma,arial;height:26px;padding-top:2px;">View more
    <a style="text-decoration:underline;"
    href="http://www.slideshare.net/">documents</a>
    from <a style="text-decoration:underline;"
    href="http://www.slideshare.net/idangazit">Idan Gazit</a>.</div></div>


RabbitMQ, Celery and Django
===========================

Great Celery tutorial by `Robert Pogorzelski`_ at his blog "Happy Stream of
Thoughts":
http://robertpogorzelski.com/blog/2009/09/10/rabbitmq-celery-and-django/

.. _`Robert Pogorzelski`: http://robertpogorzelski.com/

Message Queues, Django and Celery Quick Start
=============================================

Celery tutorial by `Rich Leland`_, the installation section is Mac OS X
specific:
http://mathematism.com/2010/feb/16/message-queues-django-and-celery-quick-start/

.. _`Rich Leland`: http://twitter.com/richleland


Background task processing and deferred execution in Django
===========================================================

`Alon Swartz`_ writes about celery and RabbitMQ on his blog:
    http://www.turnkeylinux.org/blog/django-celery-rabbitmq

.. _`Alon Swartz`: http://twitter.com/alonswartz

Build a processing queue [...] in less than a day using RabbitMQ and Celery
===========================================================================

Tutorial in 2 parts written by `Tim Bull`_:
http://timbull.com/build-a-processing-queue-with-multi-threading

.. _`Tim Bull`: http://twitter.com/timbull

How to get celeryd to work on FreeBSD
=====================================

Installing multiprocessing on FreeBSD isn't that easy, but thanks to `Viktor Petersson`_
we now have a step-to-step guide:
http://www.playingwithwire.com/2009/10/how-to-get-celeryd-to-work-on-freebsd/

.. _`Viktor Petersson`: http://twitter.com/vpetersson

Web-based 3D animation software
===============================

Indy Chang Liu at `ThinkingCactus`_ uses Celery to render animations
asynchronously (PDF):
http://ojs.pythonpapers.org/index.php/tppm/article/viewFile/105/122

.. _`ThinkingCactus`: http://thinkingcactus.com/


RabbitMQ with Python and Ruby
=============================

http://www.slideshare.net/hungryblank/rabbitmq-with-python-and-ruby-rupy-2009
